Add some design docs for distributed setup (#7950)
Minio-io/minio: docs/distributed/DESIGN.md

minio server http://host{1...16}/export{1...64}
```

## Architecture

Expansion of ellipses and choice of erasure packs based on this expansion is an automated process in MinIO. Here are some of the details of our underlying erasure coding behavior.

> - Erasure coding used by MinIO is [Reed-Solomon](https://github.com/klauspost/reedsolomon) erasure coding scheme, which has a total shard maximum of 256 shards i.e 128 data and 128 parity. MinIO design goes beyond this limitation by doing some practical architecture choices.

Reviewer: `has a total shard maximum of 256 shards` - > `has a total shard maximum of 256`

Author: Use GitHub suggestions feature @kannappanr makes it easy to merge doc change requests.

Author: ```suggestion
- Erasure coding used by MinIO is [Reed-Solomon](https://github.com/klauspost/reedsolomon) erasure coding scheme, which has a total shard maximum of 256 i.e 128 data and 128 parity. MinIO design goes beyond this limitation by doing some practical architecture choices.
```

> - Erasure pack is single most maximum erasure unit beyond which an object is not sharded. This is automatically calculated based on the number of disks on command line. MinIO supports unlimited number of disks but each erasure pack can be upto 16 disks and a minimum of 4 disks. Anything beyond 16 we saw that erasure coding can become chattier and do not have any performance advantages. Anything beyond 16 can also be considered as superfluous since 16 erasure pack itself can give you tolerance of 8 disks per object by default which is plenty in any practical scenario.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Erasure pack is a single erasure coding unit within a MinIO deployment. An object is sharded within an erasure pack. Erasure pack size is automatically calculated based on the number of disks. MinIO supports unlimited number of disks but each erasure pack can be upto 16 disks and a minimum of 4 disks. 

- We limited the number of drives to 16 for erasure pack because, erasure code shards more than 16 can become chatty and do not have any performance advantages. Additionally since 16 drive erasure pack gives you tolerance of 8 disks per object by default which is plenty in any practical scenario.
```

- We limited the number of drives to 16 for erasure set because, erasure code shards more than 16 can become chatty and do not have any performance advantages. Additionally since 16 drive erasure set gives you tolerance of 8 disks per object by default which is plenty in any practical scenario.

- Choice of erasure set size is automatic based on the number of disks available, let's say for example if there are 32 servers and 32 disks which is a total of 1024 disks. In this scenario 16 becomes the erasure set size. This is decided based on the greatest common divisor (GCD) of acceptable erasure set sizes ranging from *4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16*.

- *If total disks has many common divisors the algorithm chooses the minimum amounts of erasure sets possible for a erasure set size of any N*.  In the example with 1024 disks - 4, 8, 16 are GCD factors. With 16 disks we get a total of 64 possible sets, with 8 disks we get a total of 128 possible sets, with 4 disks we get a total of 256 possible sets. So algorithm automatically chooses 64 sets, which is *16 * 64 = 1024* disks in total.

> - In this algorithm, we also make sure that we spread the disks out evenly for example. MinIO server expands ellipses passed as arguments. Here is a sample expansion to demonstrate the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In this algorithm, we also make sure that we spread the disks out evenly. MinIO server expands ellipses passed as arguments. Here is a sample expansion to demonstrate the process.
```

> http://host4/export8
```

A noticeable trait of this expansion is that it chooses unique hosts such that the erasure code is efficient across drives across hosts.

> - Chosing an erasure pack by the object is decided during `PutObject()`, object names are used to find the right erasure pack using the following pseudo code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Choosing an erasure pack for the object is decided during `PutObject()`, object names are used to find the right erasure pack using the following pseudo code.
```

> - Choosing an erasure pack for the object is decided during `PutObject()`, object names are used to find the right erasure pack using the following pseudo code.

Reviewer 2: It was called `erasure set` earlier, have we changed the name to `erasure pack` now?

Author: Well set or pack is not a hard technical term that we are religious about. Pack is perhaps something preferable, although set is mathematically correct. But you tell me..

Reviewer 2: Probably just because I am familiar with `erasure set` it sounds natural/preferable to me..

Author: Okay let me keep it `erasure set`

> http://host4/export8
```

> A noticeable trait of this expansion is that it chooses unique hosts such that the erasure code is efficient across drives across hosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A noticeable trait of this expansion is that it chooses unique hosts such that the erasure code is efficient across drives and hosts.
```

- Choosing an erasure set for the object is decided during `PutObject()`, object names are used to find the right erasure set using the following pseudo code.
```go
// hashes the key returning an integer.
func crcHashMod(key string, cardinality int) int {
        keyCrc := crc32.Checksum([]byte(key), crc32.IEEETable)
        return int(keyCrc % uint32(cardinality))
}
```
Input for the key is the object name specified in `PutObject()`, returns a unique index. This index is one of the erasure sets where the object will reside. This function is a consistent hash for a given object name i.e for a given object name the index returned is always the same.

> - Write and Read quorum are required to be satisfied only across the erasure set for an object, healing is also done per object which contains the object with in the erasure set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Write and Read quorum are required to be satisfied only across the erasure set for an object. Healing is also done per object within the erasure set which contains the object.
```

- MinIO does erasure coding at the object level not at the volume level, unlike other object storage vendors. This allows applications to choose different storage class by setting `x-amz-storage-class=STANDARD/REDUCED_REDUNDANCY` for each object uploads so effectively utilizing the capacity of the cluster. Additionally these can also be enforced using IAM policies to make sure the client uploads with correct HTTP headers.

## Other usages

### Advanced use cases with multiple ellipses

Standalone erasure coded configuration with 4 sets with 16 disks each, which spawns disks across controllers.
```
minio server /mnt/controller{1...4}/data{1...16}
```

> Standalone erasure coded configuration with 16 sets 16 disks per set, across mnts, across controllers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Standalone erasure coded configuration with 16 sets, 16 disks per set, across mounts and controllers.
```

```
minio server /mnt{1..4}/controller{1...4}/data{1...16}
```

> Distributed erasure coded configuration with 2 sets 16 disks per set across hosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Distributed erasure coded configuration with 2 sets, 16 disks per set across hosts.
```
